# Java 9 - Implementing Services

# What is Service?

A specific functionality provided by the library is known as service. Let us consider an example to describe in detail, we can have different libraries providing the a number check service , which can check whether the given number is valid or not and also odd or even, etc., Applications and library providing an implementations for a service are called as service providers. Applications using this service are called as service consumers or clients.

In java, a service is defined by a set of interfaces and classes. The service contains an interface or an abstract class that defines the functionality provided by the service.

There are multiple implementations for a service and they are called as service providers. The client using this service will not have any contact with the implementations. This can be achieved by using the below concept.

The ServiceLoader class (java.util) in JDK is responsible for discovering and loading all the service providers at a runtime for a service interface of type S. The ServiceLoader class allows decoupling between the providers and consumers. The consumer which is client knows only about the service interface. The service loader will instantiate all the service providers that are implementing the service and makes it available to the consumer to use.

This architecture follows plugin mechanism in which the service providers can be added or removed without affecting the service interface and the consumers.

Discovering Service:
The java.util.ServiceLoader class is used to discover and load all the service providers.The module which discover and load all the service providers should contain the uses statement in module descriptor file.
Uses <service-interface>
In our example, we have the service “AdminService” which is the service interface loads and discovers the service providers.

``` java
module com.gg.admin{
	exports com.gg.service;
	 uses com.gg.service.AdminService;
}

```
The service coding is described below ,
``` java
package com.gg.service;

import java.util.ServiceLoader;

public interface AdminService {
	
	public void printServiceInfo();
	
	public static AdminService newInstance(){
		ServiceLoader<AdminService> service=ServiceLoader.load(AdminService.class);
		for(AdminService inter:service){
			return inter;
		}
		return null;
		
	}
}
```



# Hands-on Demo

@[Service ]({"stubs": ["src/com.gg.admin.client/com/gg/client/Client.java"], "command": "/bin/bash run.sh"})

Check out the markdown file [`welcome.md`](https://github.com/TechDotIO/java-template/blob/master/markdowns/welcome.md) to see how this exercise is injected into the template.

# Template Resources

[`markdowns/welcome.md`](https://github.com/TechDotIO/java-template/blob/master/markdowns/welcome.md)
What you are reading here is generated by this file. Tech.io uses the [Markdown syntax](https://tech.io/doc/reference-markdowns) to render text, media and to inject programming exercises.


[`java-project`](https://github.com/TechDotIO/java-template/tree/master/java-project)
A simple Java + Maven + JUnit project dedicated to run the programming exercise above. A project relies on a Docker image to run. You can find images on the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/explore/) or you can even [build your own](https://tech.io/doc/reference-runner).


[`techio.yml`](https://github.com/TechDotIO/java-template/blob/master/techio.yml)
This *mandatory* file describes both the table of content and the programming project(s). The file path should not be changed.


# Visual and Interactive Content

Tech.io provides all the tools to embed visual and interactive content like a Web app or a Unix terminal within your contribution. Please refer to the [documentation](https://tech.io/doc) to learn more about the viewer integrations.
